do you think the government should help
football clubs financially when the
players are still receiving
massive salaries compared to an average
person's wage
all right well alex i was going to come
to you because you carlisle
a united fc um which plays in league
two as what is his warning it faces a
1.2 million shortfall
and i'm thinking about obviously you've
got merseyside now that's going into
uh or live at the liverpool area as well
it's going to restrict it's going to
affect the clubs there too
yeah football clubs are in a really bad
situation
and um you know um
we heard the point just now about um
players
wages which is one side of it that we've
needed to
regulate better and have a better system
of governance in our
in our national game for many years and
the virus has shown this
in sharp relief so do you think the
premier league should dip into their
pocket
i think the premier league have got to
contribute but i think it's bigger than
that the government promised
in their 2019 manifesto a fan-led review
of
football governance and the minister
says he wants to include finances as
well
labour agree with this and i've been
banging on about football finances and
governance
since i was first elected as a member of
parliament in 2010. that's a lot of talk
about football in 10 years
and so what would labour do now we we
have written to the government
offering our principles for reviewing
the regulations to make it better right
now
if i was the minister for sport now i
would be getting the premier league the
efl
and all the parties round the table and
say can we all stick to the principle
that no football supporter in this
country should
lose a much loved sports club just
because of the virus
now we know that the finances of
football have been shall i say
challenging for a long time anyway
so we've got to separate the ch out the
changes that we need
for the medium term and the long-term
viability of the game
with as a way of protecting clubs in the
short term if it's just the virus that
will tip them over
because i've seen you know whether it's
what happened with macclesfield recently
or what happened with berry
you know i've seen how it impacts
people's as supporters when clubs go
under
it's part of your identity it's who is
who you are and football supporters
deserve much better than they're getting
at the moment david
look i support a league one club in
scotland which is not players on massive
salaries and i think one of the things
that's really important for people to
remember is that yes there are big
football clubs out there
players that are on big wages but for
the vast majority of us in communities
you know it's small clubs you know small
teams who are really struggling at the
moment
but one of the points i was making in
the house of commons this week to the
government as well is about being
mindful of the fact you know my own
constituency itself
football club biggest football club you
know in scotland um but it's about
making sure that people remember that
there's also a local economic aspect to
this as well
as 60 000 football stadiums so what do
you think should happen
what would you do to help the club slow
down who are losing out because they
aren't getting people in
well we certainly need to go back and
look again at the financial support
that's offered to them and the financial
package that was brought forward by the
treasury whether it's in furlough
whether it's the excluded 3 million is
just totally inadequate
the government has pulled a lot of that
financial support so i don't think that
russia sooner can get to christmas
without having to look again
at the financial packages he's offered
because what he's put in the table so
far
is just not going to cut it for
communities for clubs and most
importantly for people who are really
struggling at the moment
stuart you're a footy fan i am a
football fan i'm a
spurs fan for my paints um at the end of
the day the premiership's got to help
the smaller teams on the efl and they've
got to do something
there is a deal in place as you know the
argument at the moment is with
is about the access of foreign players
coming in
so there's a three-way trade-off going
on if they let more foreign players come
in
they'll give the money to the efl the
efl and say well don't do that because
you won't bring our youngsters through
so they've got to sort it out but the
industry needs to help itself because
fundamentally
as that gentleman said at the beginning
the people at the top end
have got a disproportionate amount of
the income and the revenues
jim you've got your hand up it's just
it's more of a statement than anything
our local team carl and united they've
really suffered recently but what
they've done is they have kept most of
the money
that people have paid for their season
tickets
and they're allowing uh their fans to
watch it online so that
they're maintaining you know some of the
income and some of the revenue
and and giving something back to the
fans which i think is really good i
think it's a really positive step
and helen i can see you nodding away
yeah
this is a much wider issue than football
clubs and i have to say i agree with the
point that football should support
football the richer clubs should support
the poorer clubs through this really
difficult time but we need to think
about cricket clubs and rugby clubs and
athletic grounds and all the other
uh sporting facilities that are really
suffering right now um and this you know
so yeah
football's great but there are other
sports out there too so let's think
about them all please
and grant the government has has um
promised an emergency
grant to the national league so the
fifth year of english football
what about the rest of it is this
something the government is eventually
going to pitch in
in the way that david's suggesting are
you going to leave it to the premier
league but look i do think um i think
the premier league does have um
much to give as it were in this it's in
to their advantage that these players
come up from
uh the other teams and if you know
carlyle are playing i think barrow on
saturday and uh you know you've been
swatting up haven't you grand
carrying favor with our audience here
but you know they will need to
um be able to carry on playing as as has
been said they've come up with their own
innovative
ways to do that and we're looking at a
bunch of things as well like how you can
use technology in football to help the
clubs and help audiences and so on and
so forth but it is something that's been
very hard to work with and i do think
that the premier league is a uh
significant part of the solution as well
as government and therefore taxpayer
and gordon this was your question what's
your view
uh i think that the football club should
be in a way
if you can uh demonstrate you can by
social distancing uh you can stop the
spread of the virus
the stadiums have all seated numbers
and do things should be allowed certain
amount of supporters
to watch the game and that would
alleviate some of the pressure
uh both for the fans as well as the the
clubs but the governing bodies should
get together
don't think government the government
should be involved at all but i also
think the players have a responsibility
as well
some of these players i mean okay the
law leagues are not earning as much
but when we were furloughed and people
were
living off 80 for the wages i'd say some
footballers could live off 10 of their
wage
yeah and i'm talking about obviously the
real high earners here so i do think
it needs to be all the governing bodies
need to get together
sorted out i don't think the government
should be involved because it's not just
sport
such as football i mean there's there's
other sports as well and
where the camera should help the the
lower clubs that's of clubs
god will they well grant it it's a rare
thing we have where people tell you the
government shouldn't be involved
at the moment so there you are so you
can enjoy that moment while it looks at
that point about um
letting the spectators in the stadium
that was something we were
hoping to move towards on a testing
basis on a test basis but we have this
you know absolute desire to have schools
and work
back and we can't if the r raters above
one
do other discretionary things when we
get it down we can do these other things
which will help the football clubs and
all other sport